hey Internet fam recently I made a 360
video skydiving out of a plane it was so
much fun a 360 video is this like new
space that a lot of people are exploring
but there's a lot of questions around it
because it is so new so I got a lot of
questions on how did I shoot it how did
I end it and how do you share it and how
do you view it on the fancy VR goggles
so this is what this video is all about
everything I'm talking about today is
the workflow that I use so it's with a
Samsung phone VR goggles and then the
Samsung gear 360 camera to actually
capture the 360 content now a lot of
these cameras maybe you can like
manually stitch it together with like
third-party software if you have you
know an iPhone instead of a Samsung
phone but I found if you have a samsung
phone it is so easy to put the footage
together and edit it first step is the
first step is viewing the VR content so
these are the Samsung gear VR this is
how you view this 360 movies in virtual
reality of course there's a lot of 360
content that you can view from the milk
VR library but one of the first things
that you want to probably do when you
get these is view 360 YouTube videos and
so you have to download a app for that
you go into your goggles go to the
little store where you can search for
things download Samsung internet once
you have the Samsung internet downloaded
that allows you to type in youtube.com
and explore the library of 360 video
there and view it on your VR headset so
anything I'm talking about is actually
capturing this footage when you transfer
your movie straight from your phone to
the VR goggles the quality is just in
sane capturing footage on this is as
easy as just turning it on pressing the
menu button going through the functions
and landing on the video and then
clicking the record button you want to
make sure that you go into settings and
make sure that the video size is the
highest quality highest resolution will
be 38 40 by 1920 so the actual capturing
part isn't that hard but how do you get
the video how do you get
pictures off of here on to your phone or
on to the gear VR or on to the internet
so the next step is transferring to a
Samsung phone so the Samsung Galaxy s7
what you want to do is hold down the
Bluetooth button on here and you'll have
gear 360 manager pop-up on the phone you
want to go to Samsung gear 360 app click
on that that's how you connect these two
together once you're at the gear 360
manager click the record button and it
will say waiting to connect it will have
a little number up there and then you
press connect on here and I'll say
connecting to gear and it's connected if
you're having trouble you can press more
and just say connect to new gear 360 and
then make sure the number on here lines
up with what you're connecting to on
your phone what's the phone and the
camera is connected you want to go over
to the gear 360 tab it'll load all the
pictures and video that you have on your
camera once you can view that you can
tap a single file and press the Save
button or you can hold down a clip and
then check off multiple clips that you
want to download and then press save in
the upper right hand corner once you
save those clips the clips will now save
onto the mobile device tab and you can
scroll through what you've saved and
view them on your phone or view them
immediately on the gear VR but you
probably don't want to stop there so
let's talk about how to get it on your
computer and get to editing I did all my
editing on a MacBook Pro laptop and so
what I did is you download the Android
file transfer app everything that you
need will be linked down in the
description below once I download that
app I go into the appropriate folder and
I just drag and drop from there into
whatever folder I want to get editing
and premiere or Final Cut all the
stitching all the 360 magic happens when
you transfer your footage onto your
phone so once you transfer the footage
from your phone to the computer you are
good to go
but it's the phone that really does all
the 360 magic and that's why this is
such an important part of the process
once you have transferred the files you
can open up the editor of your choice i
use Premiere CC import all the footage
that you
just transfer from the Android file
transfer app and get to editing drop
down the clips and the editor do what
you would normally do but now it's with
360 video what I was making my skydiving
through sixty movie I basically edited
all of it just as a one flat long
rectangle and then once I exported it I
could view it on my phone 360 or view it
immediately in the gear VR 360 however
the new update in Premiere actually
allows you to view it kind of like you
would view it in 360 mode on YouTube or
in the gear VR if you don't have this
update yet or you're using another
editing software system something that I
use was a called colorize I'll also link
that down below it is free you can
download it and you can just drag and
drop the clips on to this app and you
can immediately just scroll around as if
it's 360 it's a super handy app to use
next up is sharing how do you share what
you edit either if it's pictures or
videos so sharing on to Facebook is
actually very easy when it comes to 360
pictures once you transfer that picture
from your phone to your computer it has
all that 360 data built-in if you want
to do any editing make sure to edit in
Photoshop and then click the save as
feature the save as keeps all the 360
metadata in it so once you upload it to
Facebook it recognizes that it's a 360
picture so all you have to do is just
hit upload onto Facebook and upload that
picture straight onto it and you'll be
able to move around when it comes to
YouTube and video it's a little bit more
tricky just because this is new there's
not a lot of support out there and the
support pages on YouTube are outdated so
I'm going to tell you the correct way to
do what you need to do the new update
and premiere does have a check mark for
checking this video is VR I'm not sure
what that does because when I checked it
YouTube still didn't recognize the video
as a 360 video but maybe I did something
wrong or that will change in the next
coming months you'll just have to see
what I did is use an app called spatial
media metadata injector it's a freaking
mouthful but download that and that is
what injects the 360 metadata into your
video which allows YouTube to recognize
that it's a 360 video here's where I got
a little bit messed up on the YouTube
support pages that
that you need to hit both of the
checkmarks when opening and exporting
your new video file but whatever you do
do not do not check off those marks you
do not want to confuse YouTube just do
not check off those marks so all you
have to do within this app is open your
file that you exported just like a
normal mp4 file from premiere open up
that file and then just press inject
it'll save it as a new file just with
that injected metadata and then you go
to youtube press upload click that file
and then wait patience is key once the
video is uploaded it'll still be just
one big flat rectangle you won't be able
to move around but give it about 15
minutes to process upload an HD and then
you'll get the 360 effect of being able
to grab the screen and move it around
make sure you're using something like
Google Chrome Safari is not compatible
with 360 video well Internet I hope that
helped keep in mind that VR and 360
video is still super new but it's
becoming hecka mainstream in the next
few years so the workflow is probably
going to get easier let me know if you
have any questions down like comments
sections below if I can't help you out
maybe some of you guys can go through
the comments and answer some questions
if you want to view the skydiving 360
video that I made I will link it up up
here and in the end slate let me know if
you like this video hit that subscribe
button down below because I am posting
every day daily vlogs and all the other
stuff that I do have a fabulous day and
I'll see you in the next one guys okay
stay PG okay
you